Now, if you're really tight on time and
budget,
then you can skip the wireframing bit and
just use whatever you did in notion.
But actually, it's really worth to start
visualizing it a little bit more so
people can see how the content
is gonna be placed on the page.
Now we're starting to explore some
of the structure, and layout, and
flow of the actual individual pages.
And Greyscale wireframes are a great
opportunity to organize your content,
test your layout, establish your page
flow without necessarily getting
drawn into those conversations
about aesthetics.
What color blue it is or whatever.
So that's why I like wireframing.
I don't wireframe every page of a website.
I wouldn't wireframe necessarily every
page of an app or state of an app.
It kinda depends what's appropriate
in an individual situation.
So the typical things on,
let's say a website I would wireframe is
things like the homepage, any key landing
pages, kind of standard text page.
But I also will tend to if we're getting
into a lot of kind of functionality and
interaction.
I will tend to wireframe those because
that's gonna make it a lot easier for
a developer that's has to pick it up if
they can see exactly how it's gonna work
and operate.
So things like forms,
ecommerce checkouts, account management,
app functionality, etc.
So those are the kinds of things
that I tend to wireframe.
So far I've kind of talked about
the process of creating content,
but I'm talked a lot about how we
can integrate this clients and
our stakeholders into that process,
which is a really important
part of the whole process.
So, there's a couple of
little exercises that I do.
And I'm not talking really
about content creators here,
I'm not talking about the people
that gonna write the final content.
I'm talking about everybody
else that has an opinion
[LAUGH] on what should be in this app or
website.
So it's a couple of things I do.
One little exercise I do is called
the user attention point exercise.
I've got a link to this and I'll do this.
You know those scenarios where people
kind of just keep stuffing more and more
content or more and more functionality
into any particular page, right?
And it becomes this big problem cuz
everybody just wants to have one
more thing, just one more thing, right?
We just got to put this disclaimer text
here, or we've just got to put this error
message, or this announcement, or
we've got this event coming up, and
we need to meet and before you know it,
it ends up this kind of hot mess.
[LAUGH] So the user attention point
exercises the way of dealing with this.
So what I basically do is I get all
of those different stakeholders that
have all got opinions about what
should go on this, whatever it be,
let's say a homepage for now.
And I basically get them to brainstorm
everything that needs to go on this.
Absolutely every element,
from the drop down menus to the privacy
policy to everything
that's gone on the page.
And they normally come up with
a pretty damn long list, right?
So I let them get it all
out of their system.
And seeing all those things side
by side instantly makes them go,
that's a lot of things.
And then I introduced the idea that
users only have limited attention.
And there's actually a really
good Times article that says,
we've got about eight seconds
to grab someone's attention
using a particular website,
or app, or whatever.
And I say, okay, so we know we've got
about eight seconds to communicate
the key information on this particular
page, let's be optimistic and
say, people can look at three
elements in a second, right?
But that is the equivalent of 24
points of user attention, make sense?
So now you spend your 24
points of user attention,
they'll have more than 24 elements
written down for a start, so
that immediately they've got
to start removing things.
But here's the killer catch, right?
You might want somebody to look at
some elements more than others on
the page, right?
So you want people to pay more attention
to your strapline than your privacy
policy, right?
So you have to give it more
user attention points.
So, basically, you could give
all 24 just your strapline and
have nothing else on
the page if you wanted to.
Or you can give one point to everything,
but
then your privacy policy is gonna
appear as important as your strapline.
So they have to reach a middle ground.
So you get to get them to go away and
do this exercises they go through, and
they make some attempts to spread
the points around, but not a lot.
It's like two points here, one point here,
one point here, two points here, etc.
So they narrow it down a little bit, but
they don't quite get it
normally in the first go.
And then when they've done,
you congratulate them, you thank them for
getting rid of so many elements that
they've removed from their list, but
you probably haven't gone far enough.
Let me show you.
And I bring up the Google homepage and
say the Yahoo homepage, right, and
you say, which is better of the two?
And they will go with Google,
Google's really easy you to use,
it's really simple.
Where they spend like 15, 16, 17 points
on the search box alone, while Yahoo
have spread out all over the place and
there's far too much going on the page.
And it's like this light bulb moment for
stakeholders where they go,
yeah, we've not focused enough.
And you get to redo the exercise and
they'll make all the hard decisions for
you and remove all this clutter from
the website without you having to argue
with them, right?
You've just created the environment for
them to learn to do it themselves,
and immediately now they feel
engaged with the content.
They are better educated about the
content, and so it means that they're less
likely to reject the design because you're
just reflecting back what they agreed.
So that's a really good one.
And then I've already talked
about defining content blocks.
And once you've decided what
needs to appear on the page,
then you can start working with clients
around the different content blocks.
You don't need to worry about
the exact wording at this stage,
but rather focusing on key messaging.
And if you engage them a little
bit with that, they feel like I've
contributed there as well, and so
then you just wanna frame it up really.
But I really would highly encourage
people when it comes to the wireframe to
pick the right tool for the job.
I see so many people jumping into Figma or
Sketch to do wireframing.
It takes far, far too long.
And you end up getting stuck into
designing screen elements and
what should it look like and
all the rest of it.
And it's too early for that stuff, right?
And you'll be too
precious over the design,
and when you show it to the client,
they won't like it, and
then you've spent long time creating it,
don't do that.
So there's a couple of tools
that I tend to prefer.
This Balsamiq, which is a tool
that's been around forever.
Brilliant for really quickly
throwing together wireframes,
are very lightweight,
quick to put together.
My latest favorite is Whimsical,
which does very similar thing.
Really lets you mock up pages,
just drag elements in, and
you can put pages together very quickly.
Or if you are absolutely
set on using figma or
sketch, then use a wireframing template.
My favourite is this one called form for
envision where it's got
ready made components.
You literally just drag in and assemble
the page and put in your own content.
So really quick and nasty,
these are supposed to be because
they're a discussion point, they're
to include the client in the process,
show them something early,
get them engaged,
get them focusing on the content and the
structure rather than getting distracted.
Before we move on to kind of
testing these wireframes,
any questions around that process of
going from content to wireframing?
Because I'm aware that
it's quite a lot there.
And by the way, when it comes
to questions, I include, yeah,
buts in that as well.
Yeah, but
pool that may work in this situation.
But in my situation, I'm quite happy
to talk about some of those as well.
So yes, go for it.
>> At what point do we go
from discovery to prototype?
>> That's a really good question actually.
Yeah, when the money and time runs out,
it's probably [LAUGH].
Yeah, there is no definitive
answer to something like that and
it is a judgment call.
For me, I think you get diminishing
returns at certain point.
You could carry on doing user research and
competitive analysis forever, but
normally before that, there is a pressure
organizationally to move the project on.
So a discovery phase is almost always
as long as you can get away with rather
than it being, okay, we need to now
make a conscious decision to move on.
If you are in a position of making
a conscious decision to move on,
then a lucky you.
But I think that moment for
me would be when you feel
confident that you've
learned enough to be able to
create a wireframe,
that's the honest answer.
So you need to have a clear understanding
of what the questions, objections, and
tasks are.
You need to have a clear understanding
of who your audience is,
what the ultimate goal is.
You need to have an understanding
of any constraints on the project,
any broader context of the project
such as competition, etc.
But once you've got that,
you're good to go really.
Any other questions?
>> And which of the four
phases are we in right now?
>> We're talking about with
the content and the wireframes.
This would be prototyping,
very much in the middle of prototype.
I'm sorry, that wasn't clear.
Yeah, we're now out the discovery phase.
With the questions, objections, and tasks,
just getting that initial list together,
that might,
you could do that in the discovery phase.
It's kind of fluid.
It's up to you really.
I will often have an initial
stab at it in discovery
just to give me a sense of what
we're gonna be prototyping.
But as soon as I've got that
initial bullet point list,
I wouldn't do any more on content
until we start prototyping personally.
But it's up to you to some extent,
make it your own,
I don't think you're gonna do
harm if you wanna do it earlier.